emds: next emds version (#23602)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/libraries/others/emds.rst

**************
The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_EMDS` Kconfig option enables the emergency data storage.

The EMDS is implemented to use the persistent memory in form of storage partitions, which can be either flash or RRAM.
The static partition manager file :file:`pm.yml.emds` is required for defining the storage partitions.
You must align the storage partitions to the write block size, which is 4 bytes for flash and 16 bytes for RRAM.
The EMDS mandates at least two storage partitions to allow restoring of the last known copy of data.
The application must initialize storage partitions by using the :c:func:`emds_init` function.

The partition storage space for each partition must be larger than the combined data stored by the application.
To find out how much storage space is needed, call the :c:func:`emds_store_size_get` function.

> Additionally, consider the size of the metadata, which is 32 bytes per snapshot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, consider the size of the metadata, which is 32 bytes for each snapshot.
```

Allocating a larger storage area will demand more resources, but also increase the life expectancy of the persistent memory.
The chosen size should reflect the amount of data stored, the available persistent memory and how the application calls the :c:func:`emds_store` function.

The memory location that is going to be stored must be added on initialization.
All memory areas must be provided through entries containing an ID, data pointer, and data length, using the :c:func:`emds_entry_add` function and the :c:macro:`EMDS_STATIC_ENTRY_DEFINE` macro.
Entries to be stored when the emergency data storage is triggered need their own unique IDs that are not changed after a reboot.
The entries are stored in the partition in form of snapshots.
The snapshot is a packed copy of all entries that are registered with the EMDS library for storage in the data area of the partition.

> Each snapshot is described by the snapshot metadata that is stored in the metadata area of the partition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each snapshot is described by the metadata that is stored in the metadata area of the partition.
```

> After initialization is completed by registering all EMDS entries, the application calls the :c:func:`emds_load` function.

Reviewer: Consider splitting this paragraph to two or three shorter ones to improve readability.

Reviewer: Okay.

This starts a partition scanning procedure to find the latest snapshot.
As a part of loading procedure, the EMDS scans the metadata area of both partitions.
The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_EMDS_SCANNING_FAILURES` Kconfig option configures the depth of the scanning procedure.
The depth is the number of times the scanning procedure can fail in a row before it stops, because most likely, there is no stored metadata left.
The scanning procedure is performed by reading the metadata area of the partition and checking the integrity of the metadata.
The procedure gathers the most recent snapshots (set by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_EMDS_MAX_CANDIDATES`) from the partition metadata area.
After the procedure is completed, the EMDS checks data integrity on the gathered candidates, starting from the latest one stored on the partition.
If the data integrity checks pass, the entries are restored into the memory areas from the persistent memory.
If candidates are not found or the data integrity check does not pass, the function returns an error.
The :c:func:`emds_load` function returns an error code if it runs on the empty partitions.

> After restoring the previous data, the application must call the :c:func:`emds_prepare` function to prepare the storage area for receiving new entries.

Reviewer: This could also benefit from splitting to shorter paragraphs.
